---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8"
date:   2020-10-30 10:20:05 -0700
categories: AWS Academy Module 2 Blog
---
<br />
Hello! This blog will talk about my thoughts on Module 2 - Cloud Economics and Billing.
<br />
<br />
This module talked alot about the econmic part of AWS. In the first part of the module it talked about the fundamentals of pricing. There are three drivers determining the cost of AWS which are compute, storage, and outbound transfer. Also, their pricing model includes pay for what you use, pay less when you reserve, pay less when you use more, and pay even less as AWS grows. 
<br />
<br />
This module also covered the total cost of ownership and compared a traditional infrastructure to AWS cloud. For traditional infrastructure, there are fixed costs such as facilities, hardware, licenses, and maintenance staff, that are to be considered in calculating the total cost. While on the AWS cloud, some of those fixed costs are solved by AWS and is maintained by Amazon with staff supporting the cloud, pay for what you use, hardware maintained by amazon, and many more.
<br />
<br />
In the second part of the module, it talks about how to use AWS to organize your company. The major takeaway from this part was the usage of AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM). Through there a user can create groups, accounts, and policies under the root account to manage the other users within the company.
<br />
<br />
The next part of the module covered different ways to view billing and to manage costs with AWS. AWS provides multiple reports to view how much usage is done in each application and how much of that usage costs. Also AWS provides an alert system that can alarm the user when the costs reach a certain amount and the alert is adjusted by the user.
<br />
<br /> 
In the final part of the module, it covered the tier of technical support. There are four different support tiers which are Basic, Developer, Business, and Enterprise support. The price for each varies and the the types of support differ and are suited to specific types of businesses.
<br />
<br />
My thoughts about this module made me think about the differences between on premis infrastructure to AWS cloud base infrastructure. I feel that you would need to read even the finer details to the rates that AWS offers and determine everything that you need before picking up AWS to support your company. Though it is beneficial to have cloud services due to the fixed costs you can avoid. Overall, before making any moves with a company that the rates of cloud based services need to be checked in detail if it provides what you need at the right price you can afford; the same can be said with in-house infrastructure as the price of obtaining your own hardware and licenses etc. can be expensive upfront and to maintain as well. 
