---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 11"
date:   2020-11-20 4:30:05 -0700
categories: AWS Module 5 Lab 2
---
<br />
Hi, this blog will talk about AWS module 5 Lab 2 on building a VPC and launch a web server. This lab will introduce the usage of setting up Amazon's Virtual Private Cloud. Amazon's VPC pretty much sets up your own subnets and private subnets within Amazon's Web Service. You will also have to set up your subnets in their location or availability zones, how the subnets connect to the internet or to each other, to gateways, and many other configurations. 
<br />
<br />
To create a VPC:<br />
>1. Log into your AWS account, and on the AWS management console go to services and then VPC.<br />
2. Next click on Launch VPC Wizard. <br />
3. On the left of the navigation pane, click VPC with Public and Private Subnetsand then click Select.<br />
4. Fill out the following settings with:<br /><br />
VPC name: Lab VPC <br />
Availability Zone: *Select the one you are currently close to or set up with* <br />
Public Subnet name: Public Subnet 1<br />
Availability Zone: *Select the same zone that you picked earlier*<br />
Private subnet name: Private subnet 1<br />
Elastic IP allocation ID: *If working with AWS academy, one is already set up, if not it is up to you to configure a IP*<br /><br />
5. Click Create VPC, and once completed click OK.<br /><br />

If you want to create additional Subnets:<br />
>1. On the AWS management console, go to services and then VPC.<br />
2. On the left navagation pane, click Subnets. <br />
3. Click Create Subnet then configure: <br /><br />
Name tag: Public Subnet 2 <br />
VPC: Lab VPC *the name of the vpc of the one you created earlier*<br />
Availability Zone: *it can be in another availability zone from earlier. but for aws academy they want you to choose the other availability zone of the same location*<br />
IPv4 CIDR block: *use the same IP as the subnet earlier but change the IP to differentiate the subnets* <br /> <br />
4. Click Create and then Close<br /><br />
The next steps is for optional private subnets:<br />
1. Click Subnet then configure: <br /><br />
Name tag: Private Subnet 2<br />
VPC: Lab VPC *the name of the vpc of the one you created earlier* <br />
Availability Zone: *Same as Public Subnet 2* <br />
CIDR block: *use the same IP schema, but change the IP to differentiate the subnets* <br /><br />
2. Click Create then click Close.<br /><br />
The next step is to route the subnets to other gateways and subnets:<br />
1. On the left navagation pane, click Route Tables.<br />
2. Check the box for the route table with Main = Yes and VPC = Lab VPC. <br />
3. At the lower pane click the Routes tab. <br />
4. In the Name column, click the pencil icon and name it Private Route Table and click the checkmark icon.<br />
5. Next, click the Subnet Associations tab and click Edit subnet associations.<br />
6. Check the box for Private Subnet 1 and Private Subnet 2 and click Save.<br />
7. Then back on the top navigation pane, select the route table with Main = No and VPC = Lab VPC<br />
8. On the lower navigation pane, click Routes tab.<br />
9. Click on the Subnet Associations tab, and click edit subnet associations. <br />
10. Check the checkbox for Public Subnet 1 and Public Subnet 2. <br />
11. Click Save. <br />
<br />

After all that VPC configuration, you should have 2 public VPCs that are routed to the same gateway and 2 private VPCs routed to the same gateway as well. The first part sets up the initial public and private VPCs, and the second part ties the new VPCs to the initial public and private VPCs that were set up and connected to their respective gateways. Depending on the second part if you put them in different availability zones, the new VPCs can exist in separate zones than the intial ones were.   


