---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9"
date:   2020-11-06 12:20:05 -0700
categories: Lab 4
---
<br />
Hello! This blog will talk about how I worked on Lab 4. I'm using a macOS machine and for the Amazon machine image I am using the Ubuntu Server 18.04.
<br />
<br />
Lab 4 was to introduce the usage of the AWS account and the usage of EC2 instance and S3 bucket. To begin, you must have access to an AWS account or an AWS Educate account.
<br />
<br />
First step: Log onto AWS either directly or through and AWS educate account.
<br />
<br />
Second step: Creating the EC2 instance.<br />
> 1. Click on EC2 <br />
2. Click on Instances on the left side <br />
3. Click on Launch Instances in the yellow box <br />
4. Click Select for the Ubuntu Server 18.04 <br />
5. Make sure t2.micro is selected for Instance Type since it is free. Click on Next: Configure Instance Details on the bottom right <br />
6. Make sure under Auto-assign Public IP is enabled. Click on Next: Add Storage, then click Next: Add Tags, then click Next: Configure Security Group. <br />
7. Make sure the bubble for Create a new security group is ticked. Change the name and description for your security group. <br />
8. A rule is added starting with SSH, change the Source by clicking on the drop downbox to My IP. <br />
9. Click on Add Rule. Under the Type for the new rule dropdown menu click HTTP and leave everything as default. Then Click Review and Launch. <br />
10. Then click Launch.<br />
11. A popup window shows for key pairs. Go to the dropdown menu Choose an existing key pair and select Create a new key pair. Enter a key pair name. Then click on Download Key Pair. Make sure you remember where you saved your key pair because you will use it later to connect to the EC2 instance through SSH. <br />
12. Then click on Launch Instances <br />
13. Scroll Down and click on View Instances. Now you can see the newly made instance and check for Instance state for Running to know it is ready to access<br />
<br />
Third Step: Creating a s3 Bucket<br />
1. Go to Services on the top left hand of the console and Click on S3. <br />
2. Click on Create Bucket <br />
3. Enter a bucket name. It needs to be a name that is not taken. <br /> 
4. Leave everything on default settings. Scroll Down and click on create bucket.<br />
<br />
Fourth Step: Accessing EC2 Instance and Setting up Apache2<br />
1. Go to Services on the top left hand of the console and Click on EC2. <br />
2. Click on Instances on the left hand side. Click on the checkbox next to your instance, and Click connect on the top. <br />
3. It will lead you to ways on how to connect to your EC2 instance. Click on SSH client and see the example. Copy the command in Example: and open the Terminal on MacOS. <br />
4. On Terminal, cd into the directory of your downloaded Key pair from step 2. Use the `chmod 400` on your key file to change the file access on the keypair. <br />
5. Then paste the command from the earlier Example:, and hit enter. It will ask to connect enter yes then you are in. <br />
6. You will have run `sudo` for your commands as you are not set up with access to some of the commands. Run `sudo apt update` and `sudo apt upgrade` to update your repositories on your instance. <br />
7. Next run `sudo apt install apache2` to install apache2. <br />
8. Next we have to edit our index.html file to list our name and EC2 IP address. <br /><br />
Fifth Step: Editing the index.html file<br />
1. You are currently in your Users directory on Ubuntu, so go back two directories by using `cd ../../` to the root directory. <br />
2. Next do `cd var\www\html` to go to the directory holding the html file. <br />
3. Use your text editor and edit your index.html. Make sure to run your text editor command under sudo to write over the index.html file. For me I am using vim, so I `sudo vim index.html` <br />
5. Now we have to edit this html file. For what I did, I found the body tag and deleted everything up to the other body tag. <br />
6. In between the body tag I typed in my name and the EC2 IP address. To find your EC2 IP address, go back to your EC2 instances list and check the checkbox for your instance. Scroll down and find the Public IPv4 address and thats your EC2 instance IP. <br /> 
7. Run your apache service with `sudo service apache2 start` <br />
8. Next check your index.html by going to a web browser and inputting the IP address of the EC2 instance. <br /> 
<br />
Sixth Step: Creating the IAM Role and Policy to allow S3 access on your EC2<br />
1. Go to your EC2 Instances list and click the Checkbox for your instnace and go to Actions on the top, then Security, and then Modify IAM Role. <br />
2. Click Create new IAM role on the side and it will lead you to making a IAM role. <br />
3. Click on Create role, click on AWS service, and click on EC2 for the use case. Then click on Next: Permissions on the bottom right. <br />
4. Go to the search bar and type in: AmazonS3FullAccess. Then check the checkbox for AmazonS3FullAccess. <br />
5. Click on Next: Tags, and then click on Next: Review. <br />
6. Enter a Role Name. And Click on Create Role on the bottom right. <br />
7. Next go back to your EC2 Instance List. Check the checkbox for your instance. Go to Actions > Security > Modify IAM role. Click on the drop down menu and click on the IAM role you just made. Then click Save. <br /><br />
Seventh Step: Installing AWS CLI and using AWS CLI <br />
1. On your terminal in your EC2 instance run `sudo apt install awscli` <br />
2. Check if you have the AWS CLI `aws --version` <br />
3. Then run `aws s3 ls` to list your buckets. <br />
4. If you are in your directory run `aws s3 cp index.html s3://yourbucketname/index.html` For "yourbucketname" in the command you replace with your bucket name on s3. If you are not in the directory of your index.html change directory to your /var/www/html. <br />
5. To check if your file was uploaded go to s3 on the AWS console and click on your bucket. <br />

After doing all those steps, Screenshot your browser accessing apache/index.html file and Screenshot your command using the AWS CLI copy and s3 ls command. Upload your screenshots to the canvas submission page and your done!.
