---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2"
date:   2020-09-18 20:30:05 -0700
categories: Amazon Web Service Blog
---
<br />
Hello! This Blog will be about my experience with Amazon Web Service Educate and Amazon Web Service Instance EC2.
<br />
<br />
I followed the file on our class' Canvas site on how to sign up for Amazon Web Service Educate and had a different experience then what the instructions said. The instruction first said to make a Amazon Web Service account first, so I did with my other edu email addresses. Then to go onto the AWS Educate site and enter in your email address, school etc. I used my edu school addresses from my other colleges and I got rejected. Ultimately I only needed to go on the AWS Educate site and entered in my CSUN address and CSUN as my school to apply. Took a day to get approval and I got in.
<br />
<br />
I was able to get my account but it is run through another company called Vocarum that monitors your free tier credit and account functionality. When I tried to make IAM users, I was not able to make login informations for the users I created and keys for them. There are restrictions that they list on the Vocarum portal that you can use with the AWS portal.
<br />
<br />
Next I attempt to make a EC2 instance with AWS. I tried to change the data center location to Oregon, but it would not let me create an instance there. The only location I was able to do it in was in N. Virginia. I make an Amazon Linux instance with a key pair, and a SSH security group. I used my laptops terminal to ssh into the instance and I updated the packages using yum update. I then tried to create a webserver by installing httpd. I made another security group for Http so that I can access it with my laptops browser. That is all I got so far with my experience with AWS.

