---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0"
date:   2020-09-03 12:38:05 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Hello
/n
edit- This was my first time working with Jekyll and github pages. I had to install homebrew, ruby, bundler, gem, and then Jekyll. First I downloaded homebrew from their website using their link and a curl command. Next, I had to download a ruby version manager, rvm and then download ruby. After that I downloaded gem and bundler. Ultimately ending up downloading Jekyll. 
/n
After getting all the programs to setup Jekyll, it was time to start working with a repository on github. I first created the repository on github and then went onto the MACOS terminal to find a place to put the repository. I used the clone command and the link to the repository so that they can work in tandem. Once I was able to clone the repository, I created a docs directory to put my jekyll website in. I had an issue here because I thought you would have to name the Jekyll website and was creating a new folder within docs. I used Jekyll new . in the docs directory and then did git status, git add ., git commit -m "", and then git push. Then I went to the setting to put the source pointing at the docs. I had an issue here too because my browser's cache needed to be refreshed and I was trying to access the website too early.
/n
It was an experience. I went through a lot of commands and creating branches and directories and remote stuff and was not getting any results. But all it took were simpler commands and to wait for the page to load or reopen a new browser to refresh the cache to fix my issue. 
