---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7"
date:   2020-10-23 3:40:05 -0700
categories: Lab 3 pt 2 Blog
---
<br />
Hello! This blog will be my second attempt to Lab 3.
<br />
<br />
In this attempt I continued where I last left off in Blog 6. I updated the task name to install the required packages with all the php packages, apache2, vim, zip, and mysql-client. Next step was to go into the root directory for apache and run a git clone for affinity. 
<br />
<br />
I created a new task to change directory into apache and run the git clone command. Also at the same time change the owner and group of the created affinity directory, and created a symoblic link to point the public directory in affinity. For this task I used the command module with the parameter chdir to change into the directory before running the commands. Right after the chdir parameter, I made an array-like variable with: { { item } }. Then I used the module with_items to list all the commands to do within the directory. When it is executed, it will run each command listed in with_item that is stored in { { item } }.
<br />
<br />
Next, is to execute the curl command to get composer. I had issue with this one because I was not sure if I should use uri module for this command. My original plan was to use the uri module when I used the command module to change directory, but ansible would not allow to modules to be used in one task. There was another module I looked up called a block module but when I checked that module out it looked like it would run two tasks one after another not together. I then found the shell module to run the curl command as if it was in the container. 
<br />
<br />
After composer has been installed, I made another task to change folders and execute the new installed command composer install. I used the command module to change the directory to the affinity directory to run composer install.
<br />
<br />
Finally, I added a task to start apache so I used the command module to start up apache. I checked if composer and affinity worked with running the browser to run against the IP for the toolbox and the port it was running on and it worked.

