---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6"
date:   2020-10-16 20:49:05 -0700
categories: Lab 3 pt 1 Blog
---
<br />
Hello! This blog will be my first attempt to Lab 3.
<br />
<br />
For lab 3, we are using an IT automation tool called Ansible. First, I created a container within Docker with port foward 8080:80 and ubuntu:18.04 to create and run Ansible. After creating the container, I ran the usual apt update and apt upgrade to keep my stuff up to date and also apt install vim to create and write files. Next, I ran apt install -y ansible to get the tool into my container. I then created an Ansible folder in the Home directory to hold my Ansible file and other files I need to edit in apache, php, etc... Then I started to write my first Ansible file.
<br />
<br />
For my ansbile file, I am going to run it against the localhost of the container using 127.0.0.1 and then wrote down the tasks. My first task was to install packages, so I gave it a name called Install required packages, wrote the command apt and the names of the packages: curl git apache2, and then the state: present. I named the ansbile file as a .yml file and tried out the ansible file using the command ansible-playbook. I let it run and saw that it went through. Checked if I got curl by running the command and letting it return "curl: try 'curl --help' or ... " I then proceeded to start adding the next task Copy.
<br />
<br />
For the Copy task, I needed to get the files from my main machine's desktop that is needed for to run the Affinity application. I used docker cp command to copy from my main machine to the docker container. Next, I went back into my container and to my Ansible file added another task named Copy a file. Under that task was the command copy and the rest of the info for the task. I had to include the source of the file, the destination, the owner, the group, and the privledges. After writing the Copy task, I ran the Ansible file and was able to copy the file from within my Ansible folder to the destination folder I chose.
<br />
<br />
My next attempt for this lab, I plan to copy more files that are required to run affinity, add more tools to the install list, run the git clone to get affinity, curl the composer installer, composer install command, and many more.

