---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 12"
date:   2020-12-04 11:30:05 -0700
categories: AWS Module 10 Lab 6
---
<br />
Hi, this blog will talk aboit AWS module 10 Lab 6 on setting up Auto Scaling, and Load Balancing. In this lab, a VPC, a key pair, an EC2 instance, and security groups are already made so that the lab user will focus on setting up Auto Scaling and Load Balancing. Also, the lab user will be working on an Application Load Balancer since we are going to be working on a request level with HTTP/HTTPS.<br />
<br />

Creatting an AMI for Auto Scaling:<br />
>1. Go to EC2 under Services in the AWS Management Console.<br />
2. Next click on Instances on the left side to check if Web Server 1 passed the checks.<br />
3. When the checks have passed, select the checkbox on the ready made Web Server 1 instance, and go to the Actions dropdown menu click on the Image and Templates dropwdown and click Create Image.<br />
4. Configure the Image name and Image description. Then click create image.<br /><br />

Creating a Load Balancer: <br />
>1. In the EC2 page, on the left navagation panel, click on Load Balancers.<br />
2. Click on Create Load Balancer, then under Application Load Balancer click Create.<br />
3. Configure the Name, select the already made VPC Lab VPC, select the already made subnets Public Subnet 1 and Public Subnet 2, and select the availability zones. <br />
4. Click on Next: Configure Security Settings, then Next: Configure Security Groups. <br />
5. In this part Checkmark Web Security Group and deselect default. This allows HTTP access. Then click Next: Configure Routing.<br />
6. Enter a name for the Target Group. Then click on Next: Register Targets.<br />
7. Click Next: Register Targets, then Click Next: Review. Then Click Create then close. <br /><br />

Creating a launch configuration and an Auto Scaling Group:<br />
>1. Click Launch Configurations on the left navigation pane, and then click Create launch configuration.<br />
2. Configure the settings: Launch configuration name, the amazon image that was created in the 1st section Web Server AMI, choose the Instance type t2.micro for those launched in us-east-1, and in additional configuration under Monitoring select Neable EC2 Instance detailed monitoring within CloudWatch. <br />
3. Under Security Groups choose Select an existing security group, and Select Web Security Group. <br />
4. For Key Pair configure Key pair options choose: an existing key pair, existing key pair, and select I acknowledge... Then click Create launch configuration.<br />
5. In the Launch Configuration select the recently made configuration checkbox. Then from the Actions dropdown menu, chose create Auto Scaling group.<br />
6. Enter Auto Scaling group name, then click next.<br />
7. For the network Page configure the Network to Lab VPC, select Private Subnet 1 and 2. Then click next.<br />
8. For Load Balancing: select enable load balancing, choose Application Load Balancer or Network Load Balancer, Choose a target group for your load Balancer LabGroup. Then click Next.<br />
9. Under Additional Settings, select Enable group metrics collection within CloudWatch. Then click Next. <br />
10. Under Group Size, configure: Desired Capacity: 2, Maximum capacity: 2, and Maximum capacity: 6. <br />
11. Under Scaling policies: Lab Policy Name, Metric Type: Average CPU Utilization, and Target value: 60. Then click Next and Next again. <br />
12. Choose Add tag and Configure Key and Value. Then click Next, then click Create Auto Scaling group. <br /><br />

Check the Load Balancer:<br />
>1. In the EC2 page, click on Instances on the left navigation page.<br />
2. Check to see if two new instances appeared if not refresh page after a while. Then on the left navigation page click Target Groups.<br />
3. Click on LabGroup and click on the Targets tab. Will show the instances status.<br />
4. Then click on Load Balancers on the left navigation pane, select the load balancer and on the lower pane copy the DNS name of the load balancer. Open a new browser tab and paste the DNS name. Will show the status of Load Balancer.<br /><br />

Test Auto Scaling:
>1. Go to the browser tab with the DNS name of the load balancer. Click Load Test next to the AWS logo. Leave tab open. <br />
2. This will take a while to test. Go to Cloudwatch under services and keep refreshing until Alarms are triggered.<br />
3. Then go to EC2 under services, and check Instances. Notice more instances are spewed up to support the Load management.<br /> <br />

After completing this lab, the lab user has configured an Amazon Machine Image for the auto scaler, created a load balancer, configured a launch configuration and an auto scaling group, scaled new instances within private subnets, and used Amazon Cloudwatch to alarm and monitor the infrastructure. 
