---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1"
date:   2020-09-11 12:20:05 -0700
categories: Lab 1
---
<br />
Hello! This Blog will be about Lab 1.
<br />
<br />
The basis for Lab 1 is to introduce Docker, creating a LAMP stack, and hosting an application called "Affinity" with our stack.
<br />
<br />
 In the beginning, I had to find a way to have the "docker" command to be used in the MACOSX terminal, but when I was seraching on how to get docker to be used on MACOSX it said that it would need to be ran through a VM for Docker to work properly because docker uses specific Linux kernel features. Instead the website suggested to use Docker Toolbox, where it runs a script to attach a Linux VM on my machine. Everytime I want to use Docker commands, I have to use an application called "Docker Quickstart Terminal" to create the VM for docker commands. Later in the Lab, I have to specify the IP address the VM is connected to for the localhost.
<br />
<br />
I ran through the Lab regularly and I get stuck on checking on what was being hosted on the localhost. Due to the fact I was on the VM, I had to specify the following address and then the ports. It went through and was able to work through the Lab until the usage of the "composer install" part.
<br />
<br />
I cloned the repository of affinity, and installed the composer package, but when I reached using the "composer install" I received an error, "Your requirements could not be resolved to an installable set of packages." I decided to watch the videos and saw some techniques commands that help identify some installations. I deleted the container and tried to do the steps again through the video and the lab instructions. It produced the same error, so I looked on slack and was lucky to find one of my classmates encountering this error. The professor replied "...to 'apt install php-xml'..." So I ran that command, and ran "composer install" and it finally worked. 
