---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4"
date:   2020-10-01 29:27:05 -0700
categories: Lab 2 pt 2 Blog
---
<br />
Hello! This blog will be my second attempt to Lab 2.
<br />
<br />
I worked a little bit more from Blog 3 and the Chown command was able to work. The next issue was the curl command.
<br />
<br />
When it executed the curl command, I would recieve an error for each of the file needed for composer. The distinct error I would recieve is: "The zip extension and unzip command are both missing, skipping." I would have not seen this error until my professor pointed out that error, so my professor seen my Dockerfile and noticed I was missing the "zip" package. I added it in and my image was being built without any trouble. Though when I tried to build a container using my newly built image, I was having issues accessing the affinity page.
<br /> 
<br />
When I tried to access the affinity page, I would get a "404 error". I went backto Lab 1 and noticed I did not add the change to the "apache2.conf" file, I did not also add the linked symbol for public. I also was assuming that apache2 has to be started at the same time when building the image so I added the "service apache2 start" command. For the "apache2.conf" file, I added that to the folder where my Dockerfile is and added the COPY command into the Dockerfile. After all those fixes, I still ran into an error accessing the affinity site.
<br />
<br /> 
Ultimately, I ran the container and then ran the "service apache2 restart" command and it worked.

