---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-13 10:30:05 -0700
categories: AWS Module 4 Lab 1
---
<br />
Hi! This blog will talk about the main getaways from AWS Module 4 Lab 1. The overall purpose of this lab was to get you introduced to assigning users to groups and assigning polices to users. From there, you were able to test out what the polices prevented and allow users on accessing and attempting to do actions on certain services.
<br />
<br />
To view the users under the AWS account:<br />
>1. In the AWS Management Console, on the Services menu, click IAM. <br />
2. On the navigation on the left, click Users.<br />
<br />

When you click on the user in IAM you can:<br />
>1. View Permissions<br />
2. View groups<br />
3. Security credentials<br />
<br />

To view groups click groups on the navigation pane on the left. Once you do you can:<br />
>1. View groups<br />
2. Click on one of your made groups to view details.<br />
3. Go to the Permissions tab, and under Actions click Show Policy link. This will show the JSON code of the allows and denies that is coded into the polices that are made and attatched to the group. <br />
<br />

If you want to add users to a group:<br />
>1. Click on groups on the left side on the navigation page. <br />
2. Click on a group and click on the Users tab. <br />
3. Click Add Users to Group and select a user. <br />
4. Then click Add Users. You will see that the user added is under the Users tab. <br />
<br />

If you want to use the IAM users sign-in link:
>1. Under IAM, on the left side on the navigation page, Click Dashboard. <br />
2. Copy the IAM users sign-in link. <br />
3. Go to a web browser that is incognitor or in a private window. <br />
4. Paste the link into the browser, and use the credential of the user you wanted to test. <br />
<br />

Overall this lab gave me the basics of looking IAM and how policies on groups and users prevented access to certain services depending on what was allowed and denied.
 
