---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3"
date:   2020-09-25 29:27:05 -0700
categories: Lab 2 pt 1 Blog
---
<br />
Hello! This Blog will be part 1 to my attempt to Lab 2.
<br />
<br /> 
For Lab 2, the requirement is to create a Dockerfile that will make an image that is already prepped to run the affinity web application. This lab will make use of the commands of Lab 1 but to be placed in a Dockerfile.
<br />
<br />
When I started my attempt to Lab 2, I created a directory to hold my files in there. I created a Dockerfile and I used the second example from the lab manual though I had to include extra commands to accomplish the task of the lab.
<br />
<br /> 
First I focused on getting the files from Lab 1 that are needed to run the web application. I also copied those files from a previous container that I used in Lab 1. The file names I copied were: 000-default.conf and dir.conf from the mods-available dir. The dir.conf file was to adjust php after it was downloaded.
<br />
<br />
Second, I added the essential tools such as vim, php, and mysql. 
<br />
<br /> 
Third, I added the command: RUN apt install php-xml since that command is what aided me to making composer work. 
<br />
<br />
Fourth, I combined a cd command to /var/www/html and the git clone command to clone the web application to the directory.
<br />
<br />
Here is where I got stuck. When I try to add: Run chown -hR www-data:www-data affinity/, after the clone command I get an error saying that there is no affinity directory. When I build the image without the chown command, it gets build and when I run the image it has the directory. 
<br />
<br />
My guess to solve this is to run the chown command at the same time as the clone command, because when I look at the runtime as it builds, I see that it would run containers then close containers after it is done running it. So for now I will try attempting my hypothesis, and will write the rest in my next blog. 
